So we just did advanced
React performance for
code splitting and server side rendering.
We are about to do low priority rendering.
So these are gonna take advantage of the
two new React hooks use deferred value and
use transition.
Make sure you start with a fresh copy
of adopt me which is gonna be this 14
Dash context folder.
And make sure you npm
install your dependencies,
make sure you restart your dev server,
normal stuff.
So, I was a little conflicted if
I was gonna show this to you or
if I wasn't going to show it to you.
But it felt disingenuous to show
you some of the other more advanced
React performance features and
not show you this.
So I'm gonna show you this on the pet
adoption app and it's gonna feel like
it's gonna do nothing because it's
essentially going to do nothing for us.
I'm gonna show you how it works.
I'm gonna explain to you how it works.
But it's gonna be solving a performance
problem that our app doesn't have.
So I just want to be super clear
about that, nothing's gonna
feel different after we're done doing
either one of these performance fixes.
So this is just to super
underscore a point for
all of you that React is designed and
made to solve Facebook's problems,
which means a lot of these advanced
features are for Facebook's problems.
So let me explain to you what use
deferred value is going to do and
when it might be useful and
why we don't have that problem right now.
So Facebook is designed around
having islands in all of its various
different pieces of its UIs, right?
It has a news feed, it has ads,
it has a posting box,
it has a bunch of various
different things.
Every microcosm of that newsfeed
has an entire team dedicated to it
with multiple PMs, multiple designers,
multiple engineers.
And they're all working in
concert with each other.
Some of those things are really important
that they have to update immediately.
If a user clicks on something,
you need to do that thing immediately or
else the user perceives jank,
they perceive that it's slow.
It feels slow to them,
even if it's probably not, right?
That's problematic, users don't like that,
users bounce when they feel like
something's slow or not working.
So enter use deferred value,
specifically what use deferred value and
use transition for
is low priority re-rendering.
So if a user clicks on something,
they don't care if you're loading
more stuff below the fold, right?
They're never gonna perceive it.
What Facebook wants to do is they want to
drop re-rendering things that are below
the fold or out of the way.
And then wanna focus on re-rendering
things that the user has clicked on,
the things that the user is focusing on.
So there's this notion of high priority
rendering and low priority rendering.
Now if you're thinking about your
app that you're working on right now
Some of you might be able to conceive of
like, okay, this is a high priority thing,
this is a low priority thing.
I imagine most of us, myself included,
it's all relatively the same, right?
For the most part, I don't have so
much stuff loading and so
much jank in my app and so
much danger of jank being introduced
that I need to have this
tiered notion of rendering.
But I'm gonna show you how to do it
because some of you definitely will run
into them, and this is really cool.
This is why they made these features
is for this idea of low and
high priority rendering.
So everything that I've shown you so
far is high priority rendering.
I'm gonna show you how to identify
something as low priority re-rendering.
So that basically Facebook can say,
I can drop this on the floor if
something important happens, okay.
So, yeah this is just a bunch basically
saying all the stuff that I just said.
To Facebook, half a second of rendering
is millions of dollars, right,
most of us don't have that.
Bless you, if you do,
please send me a check, okay.
For something like the Facebook feed,
this actually is a huge issue cuz they
have so much stuff going on in that page.
So what I want you to do is,
I want you to open your SearchParams.jsx.
Okay, up here at the top we're going
to import useContext, useState,
useDeferredValue, useMemo.
And that's it.
So underneath the pets
declaration which is here,
I'm gonna say const deferredPets
= useDeferredValue pets and
const renderedPets = useMemo
And give it this function of Results
pets=(deferredPets).
And then only re-render when we
see brand new deferred pets.
Okay, and then we're going to go
take this renderedPets down here
where we have Results and
we're going to render this out as
renderedPets, like that Okay,
so now if we go look at our
search prams page at Here, okay,
as you can see here, it looks exactly
the same, it feels exactly the same.
Even if we put this on 3G or something
like that, it would feel exactly the same.
So let's figure out exactly
what happened here.
So we have deferredPets which is
taking this value in from pets.
Pets is what's coming back from our API.
What I'm asserting here is,
if I get new pets back from the API,
it's okay to interrupt
re-rendering results.
Imagine I'm rendering 1,000 results of
pets or something like that, right?
That can take some time,
that can be milliseconds, centiseconds,
decaseconds, something like that,
other way round.
Yeah, it can be in the order of a second,
maybe two,
especially on a low powered device.
So what you're doing is you're taking this
and you're using this useDeferredValue,
which is basically saying, okay, I'm only
gonna give you the real value of pets once
I'm positive I got nothing left
in my render queue, right?
And so if I hand it back this pets,
it's gonna give me back deferredPets,
which is what it was before.
Or it can be what it is now,
it's one of the two.
As soon as I give it pets the first time,
it's definitely gonna give
me back what it used to be.
And then I'm gonna use memo here and
basically say, all right,
give me a rendered result
of this with deferredPets.
And only update this if
deferredPets changes.
We've used used memo before, right?
We used it previously in the class.
What useMemo does basically says,
only update this if this
value here changes, right?
So with deferredValue,
we only get a new value for
deferredValue once it's definitely cleared
out its queue of things to render, right?
So basically we end up with this
renderedPets being the results, right?
That only gets updated when we're
definitely sure that React's render
queue is empty or low or whatever, right?
But when it's not reacting to a high
priority re-render from user interaction.
That makes sense?
So only use this if you're seeing
problems of you have something
that's expensive to render,
that could be delayed.
And your users are perceiving
jank because they're trying to do
something else instead of perceiving
whatever it is we rendering there.
That is when you use useDeferredValue.
Does that make sense?
If that seems very specific,
that's because it's very specific.
[LAUGH] Most of us don't
have this problem,
most of us will never have this problem,
but that's how you do it.